Good morning, Jacob. It's Thursday, April sixteenth, twenty twenty-six. Day
four of Arete. Here's your briefing. The tone shifted overnight.
Yesterday we opened with a blockade tightening its grip and
markets shrugging it off. Today, the opposite — markets are
celebrating because the blockade might be ending. Pakistan pushed Iran
and the US toward ceasefire extension talks, Trump told reporters
the war is "close to over," and the S and
P five hundred punched through seven thousand to a new
all-time high. Meanwhile, Opus four-point-seven has been spotted on Google
Vertex and is reportedly rolling out on claude-dot-A-I itself. Bloomberg
dropped a major feature this morning about how Anthropic discovered
Mythos was too dangerous for release. And Katelyn sent you
an Anthropic job posting at midnight with "this is the
one I was talking about." It's fifty-eight degrees and clear
in Jefferson City, heading to eighty-two with afternoon storms likely.
Unbound starts today. Let's get into it. Starting with messages.
Katelyn is the big one. Around midnight she sent you
an Anthropic Greenhouse job posting link — she spotted a
specific role and wanted to flag it. She said the
qualifications list felt like it required more training or experience,
but that it's "up your alley either way." Then separately
— Dave is sick, she's nervous about sleeping, and she's
going to try to make a flight tomorrow. She also
hopes you're feeling better. A lot going on in Katelyn's
world right now. Worth a reply. Ben reacted to something
medical you told him about. He said "geez, that's so
ass," "so weird to come on out of nowhere," and
he feels like when he hears about it, it's connected
to other meds or illnesses. Whatever health thing you mentioned,
he's empathizing. Worth following up there too. Your five-seven-three friend
texted about going to forty-four Canteen on Friday if you're
interested. That conflicts with Unbound — you'll be at Mom
and Dad's Friday night. Alex sent a gif in the
group chat. Quiet otherwise. Dustin still quiet. Calendar. Unbound Book
Festival is day one today, April sixteenth through nineteenth in
Columbia. Keynote is Terry Tempest Williams. Check the Thursday evening
schedule for anything worth catching. You're staying at Mom and
Dad's Friday night and doing panels Saturday. Project Arete, day
four of thirty. Production over consumption. And this is the
final day of the arXiv trial — day seven of
seven. Decision due tomorrow. Looking ahead: Molly's Miles ten-K is
nine days out, April twenty-fifth. Capital City Race is twenty-three
days. W-W-D-C is fifty-three days. Now the news. The Iran
story is the biggest shift. The ceasefire expires April twenty-second.
Pakistani mediators visited Tehran pushing both sides toward a second
round of talks. An A-P report says Washington and Tehran
have given "in principle agreement" to extend, though a US
official told Reuters no formal agreement exists yet. The three
sticking points are Iran's nuclear program, the Strait of Hormuz,
and compensation for wartime damages. Trump called Iran's regime "pretty
reasonable." Former Secretary of State John Kerry expects a deal.
Markets believe them — the S and P closed above
seven thousand for the first time, Nasdaq hit its highest
since October, and oil is under a hundred dollars. But
the US simultaneously threatened secondary sanctions on Iranian oil buyers,
aimed at China, which bought more than eighty percent of
Iran's crude. This complicates Trump's planned Beijing visit. And Iran
reportedly bought a Chinese satellite to target US military sites.
The peace signals and escalation signals are running in parallel.
Ticketmaster. A Manhattan jury found Live Nation-Ticketmaster liable on three
counts — illegally monopolizing live event ticketing, amphitheaters, and tying
concert promotions to venue use. This opens the door to
a potential breakup. Fifty-two thousand upvotes on Reddit. One of
those antitrust stories that actually touches everyone. S and P
above seven thousand. New all-time closing high. Nasdaq crossed twenty-four
thousand. Investors believe the Iran war will fade and Americans
will keep spending. Trump is threatening to fire Fed Chair
Powell if he doesn't resign when his term ends next
month. D-O-J officials showed up unannounced at the Fed's construction
site investigating a two-and-a-half billion dollar headquarters renovation. They were
turned away. Fed independence under the most direct threat in
modern history. Spirit Airlines could begin liquidation this week. Fuel
prices killed its bankruptcy recovery. Now A-I and tech. Opus
four-point-seven is appearing. Multiple Reddit posts report it spotted on
Google Vertex and rolling out on claude-dot-A-I. Your Manifold bet
on Anthropic releasing a model above four-point-six by April fifteenth
resolved no — missed by one day. The model is
here though. Bloomberg published a major Mythos feature today —
"How Anthropic Discovered Mythos A-I Was Too Dangerous for Release."
Paywalled, but the framing is exactly the safety narrative Anthropic
wants told. Directly relevant to the policy role you applied
for. Anthropic is shrugging off eight hundred billion dollar offers.
TechCrunch reports they're not taking the money, at least not
yet. Combined with the U-K expansion — an eight hundred
person London office per C-N-B-C — the company is growing
deliberately rather than chasing the biggest number. The Gen Z
and A-I story from Axios A-M is one of the
most important pieces today. Excitement about A-I among young adults
dropped fourteen points over the past year. Anger rose nine
points. More than half of college students say their schools
ban or discourage A-I. Junior hiring fell eight percent at
A-I-adopting companies. The generation that should benefit most from A-I
is the most frightened of it. This belongs in the
A-I policy doc you're building. Other quick tech: Allbirds pivoted
from shoes to A-I and its stock exploded three hundred
percent. Google launched a native Gemini A-I app for Mac.
Siri engineers sent to a multi-week A-I coding bootcamp. YouTube
now lets you turn off Shorts. French scientists are counting
bug splatters on license plates to track insect decline. That
last one is delightfully weird. Local Missouri. Highway one-seventy-nine bridge
at Rock Creek is closing April twentieth — between Jefferson
City and Jamestown. Plan around it. Cole County passed a
capital improvement sales tax, seventy-seven-point-six percent in favor. Good news
for Jefferson City infrastructure. Lincoln University opened a community garden
for students and the public. Prediction markets. Iran announcing its
own Hormuz blockade by July is still at eighty-six percent
— the market hasn't priced in the ceasefire optimism yet.
Anthropic surpassing OpenAI's valuation in twenty twenty-six is at sixty
percent. Anthropic flipping Apple before twenty-thirty is at twenty-seven percent,
up from twenty-five. Apple foldable iPhone by end of twenty
twenty-six, eighty-five percent. ArXiv papers — final day. SafeHarness proposes
a four-layer defense for agent lifecycles. ClawGuard enforces user-confirmed rules
at every tool-call boundary to block injection attacks — the
kind of technical guardrail that translates into practical policy guidance.
AnyPoC, a multi-agent framework, discovered a hundred and twenty-two new
vulnerabilities across major software systems. The security papers have been
consistently strong throughout this trial. Worth keeping. Reminders. You've got
seven chores, two errands both about the Walgreens owl photo,
eight shopping items, and two grocery items — protein bars
and hummus. The Anthropic Application reminders list came back empty,
which probably means you cleared those out after submitting. Here's
the bottom line. The ceasefire is holding and maybe extending.
Opus four-point-seven is appearing. Katelyn is tracking Anthropic roles for
you at midnight. Bloomberg is telling the Mythos safety story.
Markets are at all-time highs. Unbound starts today — go
sit in a room full of people who care about
words and ideas and books. That's a different kind of
production. The owl photo is still at Walgreens. The arXiv
verdict is tomorrow. Enjoy the festival. Talk soon.